README.md, before:

# docker-to-linux - make bootable Linux disk image abusing Docker

**UPD:** _Two years after creating this project I clearly can see some interest in building VM images from containers and/or Dockerfiles. **If you’re aware of the real use of the docker-to-linux project, [please drop me a message and share your experience](https://twitter.com/iximiuz)**. It may help me to develop a second generation of this tool covering real-world scenarios with a more user-friendly UX. Thanks!_

There is no real goal behind this project. Just out of my curiosity what if:

  - launch a base Linux container (debian, alpine, etc)
  - pull in Linux kernel & init system (systemd, OpenRC, etc)
  - dump container's filesystem to a disk image
  - install bootloader (syslinux) to this image...

Then it should be probably possible to launch a ~~real~~ virtual machine with such an image!

Try it out:

```bash
# 1. Build the image.
#    Depending on your setup, you may need to preceed `make` with `sudo`.
make debian  # or ubuntu, or alpine

# 2. Run it! Use username `root` and password `root` to log in.
qemu-system-x86_64 -drive file=linux.img,index=0,media=disk,format=raw -m 4096

# 3. Clean up when you are done.
make clean
```

It works!

Check out `Makefile` for more details or read my article on <a href="https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/from-docker-container-to-bootable-linux-disk-image/">iximiuz.com</a>.

## Features
- Real quick build a bootable Linux image with a single command!
- 3 target distributives: Ubuntu 20.04, Debian Bullseye, Alpine 3.13.5
- Build from macOS (including M1 chips) or Linux hosts


## Release notes
#### 2021-05-02
- Fix macOS support [#10](https://github.com/iximiuz/docker-to-linux/issues/10) (thanks to @xavigonzalvo for reporting and suggesting the fix)
  - move `losetup` call from Makefile to the builder container
  - explicitly select amd64 architecture in target distr Dockerfiles to support builds on ARM hosts (_aka_ M1)
- Upgrade target distr versions
  - Ubuntu 18.04 -> 20.04
  - Debian Stretch -> Bullseye
  - Alpine 3.9.4 -> 3.13.5

#### 2020-02-29
- Improve Alpine support [#7](https://github.com/iximiuz/docker-to-linux/pull/7) (creds @monperrus)

#### 2019-08-02
- Fix loopback device lookup [#3](https://github.com/iximiuz/docker-to-linux/pull/3) (creds @christau)

#### 2019-06-03
- Initial release

## TODO
- add basic networking support
- make images writable
- support different image formats (e.g. VirtualBox VDI)
- support different target architectures (e.g. ARM)

Commit message:

Fix Ubuntu 20.04 not finding vmlinuz and initrd files

README.md, after:

# docker-to-linux - make bootable Linux disk image abusing Docker

**UPD:** _Two years after creating this project I clearly can see some interest in building VM images from containers and/or Dockerfiles. **If you’re aware of the real use of the docker-to-linux project, [please drop me a message and share your experience](https://twitter.com/iximiuz)**. It may help me to develop a second generation of this tool covering real-world scenarios with a more user-friendly UX. Thanks!_

There is no real goal behind this project. Just out of my curiosity what if:

  - launch a base Linux container (debian, alpine, etc)
  - pull in Linux kernel & init system (systemd, OpenRC, etc)
  - dump container's filesystem to a disk image
  - install bootloader (syslinux) to this image...

Then it should be probably possible to launch a ~~real~~ virtual machine with such an image!

Try it out:

```bash
# 1. Build the image.
#    Depending on your setup, you may need to preceed `make` with `sudo`.
make debian  # or ubuntu, or alpine

# 2. Run it! Use username `root` and password `root` to log in.
qemu-system-x86_64 -drive file=linux.img,index=0,media=disk,format=raw -m 4096

# 3. Clean up when you are done.
make clean
```

It works!

Check out `Makefile` for more details or read my article on <a href="https://iximiuz.com/en/posts/from-docker-container-to-bootable-linux-disk-image/">iximiuz.com</a>.

## Features
- Real quick build a bootable Linux image with a single command!
- 3 target distributives: Ubuntu 20.04, Debian Bullseye, Alpine 3.13.5
- Build from macOS (including M1 chips) or Linux hosts


## Release notes
#### 2021-05-07
- Fix - Ubuntu 20.04 stopped working because of the changed path to vmlinuz and initrd files.

#### 2021-05-02
- Fix macOS support [#10](https://github.com/iximiuz/docker-to-linux/issues/10) (thanks to @xavigonzalvo for reporting and suggesting the fix)
  - move `losetup` call from Makefile to the builder container
  - explicitly select amd64 architecture in target distr Dockerfiles to support builds on ARM hosts (_aka_ M1)
- Upgrade target distr versions
  - Ubuntu 18.04 -> 20.04
  - Debian Stretch -> Bullseye
  - Alpine 3.9.4 -> 3.13.5

#### 2020-02-29
- Improve Alpine support [#7](https://github.com/iximiuz/docker-to-linux/pull/7) (creds @monperrus)

#### 2019-08-02
- Fix loopback device lookup [#3](https://github.com/iximiuz/docker-to-linux/pull/3) (creds @christau)

#### 2019-06-03
- Initial release

## TODO
- add basic networking support
- make images writable
- support different image formats (e.g. VirtualBox VDI)
- support different target architectures (e.g. ARM)
